WHY obfuscate shell scripts:
It's generally not a good idea to obfuscate shell scripts as it brdens maintenance and seriously impedes debugging but none the less there may be circumstances where you might want to obfuscate what's being done and/or some sensitive data in the script itself. Mind you that obfuscated self executing scrip are not as safe as you might want: they have inside them the code to extract the obfuscated script so any determined person with time to spare can extract the script from them. How long that takes depends on the determination, time to spare and how well the obfuscator was made.


WHY this project:
You might be asking: "Why on earth did you not just use shc ?"
Well in my opinion shc has some short comings which are critical for me:
1) any lenthy script can be seen in clear text (with some formatting issues) with ps
2) apparently shc has hardcoded key in the binary which makes it relatively easy to extract the script (this may have been fixed)
3) what I do with interpreter.h shc has hardcoded in the sources making it harder to maintain the interpreter part

The former of these not only defeats having used shc in the first place but also makes an unholy mess of the output of ps.

If I was any better at programng (and mind you I'm a system administrator not a developer) I'd have probabbly fixed shc but I wasunable to figure out the inner workings of shc (altough in principle it should be fairly similar to obash) by reading the code/documentation so I gave up on that. I tried contacting the author of shc but that was a no go too. I was intrested on ccsh but the 50 buck pricetag killed it so I gave birth to obash. ...and yes unlike shc obash is only meant for bash scripts but could be made to work on other interpreters with a little editing.


Build:
Simply issue 
make clean
make 
to compile obash. You can copy the binary manually to wherever you like.


USE:
obash <source bash script>
will produce a binaty executable with ".x" suffixed to the input script name.
Just run <source bash script>.x as you would with the <source bash script> itself.


How it works internally:
obbash takes the input script and aes-256 encodes it, and also base64 encodes the aes cipertex so that it can be used to declare an unsigned char array.
It then produces an intermediate c file which is basically the interpreter (see interpreter.c) , functions, text array containing the cipher text and the main. The intermediate c file is then compiled into an exacutable.
The intermediate c file is built in the following manner (see mk_sh_c function in functions.c):
includes block from interpreter.h
crypted_script variable containing the base64 aes-256 encoded script 
functions block from interpreter.h
main_body block from interpreter.h

See recreate_interpreter_heade script for details on how interpreter.h is created from interpreter.c.


Key and Inizialization Vector for AES-256 encoding:
The key and iv are not hardcoded into the binary but are retreaved each time from the hardware (hence binding it to a machine).
Although the whereabouts from where they are retreaved is tracable and I make no secret of it (machine uuid and srial number) these should be then manipulated in a way that they are not directly usable as is. In the code there is a comment suggestng where this should be done: each and every one of you using obash is encouraged to do so. As an example I strip "-" from the uuid and pad short serial numbers to reach the suggested lenght for the cipher used. 


The actual AES encoding:
The part that does the actual AES encoding si right out od the openssl example. It was well docuented and easy to reuse and that's what I did.
See openssl wiki: https://wiki.openssl.org/index.php/EVP_Symmetric_Encryption_and_Decryption


Is this foolproof:
Just like shc it is still possible to extract the script it's just a that at least it's not as easy as "ps -ef" (no joke see further down for the output of ps -ef on a script shc encoded script) for any lenthy script.

I've made several attempts to do without the named pipe (which introduces an intrinsic weakness) and each time I hit the same limitation: only non iteractive scripts work right because stdi gets broken.
If you have any suggestions on how to avoid this please contact me <louigi600 (at) yahoo (dot) it>.

Having to use the maned pipe introduces an exploitable weakness which can be exploited by Writing some code that watches for any newly created pipe in /tmp and dumps them before the obash reader child empties them. This will not work work every time but you can loop untill you succeed eventually (miracle of multitasking).

There is another approach that could be used to extract the cleartext script: look at the binary and try to figure out how the key and iv are  scrambled from  uuid and serial number, which in the distributed version is rather simple (and I encourage people to make their personal changes). Once you have key and iv  that are used you could then base64 decode and aes-256-cdc decode the crypted_script vasiable content. If you have the code with wich the obash binary was buildt on you can obviously extract the script from the bins (but you should also have the sources in that case).

I regard this as being better then seing the clear text script with "ps -ef" with basically just some formatting issues and some blank prefix.
See the output of a simple "ps -ef | grep <name of the shc encoded script> :
[root@invaconprod ~]# ps -ef | grep containers
root      2098 16966  0 16:02 pts/0    00:00:00 /usr/local/bin/containers -c                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 #!/bin/bash?VERSION=14?# rc_containers  Manage the containers?# chkconfig: 345 86 01?# description: Manage the defined containers?#??NAME=$(basename $0)??UBINDS='dev/pts dev/shm dev sys proc var/log/httpd/*'?MBINDS='dev dev/pts dev/shm sys proc var/log/httpd/*'??usage ()?{ echo -e "usage : $NAME <comand> ?supported commands:\t[start|stop [comma separated container list]] ?\t\t\t[mount|umount <container>] ?\t\t\t[services <start|stop> <container>] ?\t\t\t[status]?\t\t\t[version]"?  echo?  if [ "$*" != "" ] ?  then?    echo "Error: $*"?    exit 1?  else?    exit 0?  fi?}??list_mounted_containers ()?{ mount | grep ".-lv_" | grep  -w "/www" |awk '{printf("%s,",$3)}' |sed -e "s/,$//"?}??list_defined_containers ()?{ find /www -maxdepth 1 -type d |grep -vw "/www$" |awk '{printf("%s,",$1)}' |sed -e "s/,$//" ?}??#show_status ()?#{ echo "Mounted containers: "?#  list_mounted_containers | sed -e "s/,/\n/g"?#?#  echo -e "\n"?#  echo "Container active services: "?#  netstat -ntpl |sort -nk 4 |grep -vE "$(ifconfig eth0 |grep -Eo 'inet (addr:)?([0-9]*\.){3}[0-9]*' | grep -Eo '([0-9]*\.){3}[0-9]*')|/rpcbin|/rpc\.sta|^Proto Recv-Q|^Active Internet" | awk '{print $4}'?#?#}??show_status ()?{ echo?#  eval $(grep IPADDR= /etc/sysconfig/network-scripts/ifcfg-eth0)??  for CONTAINER in $(list_mounted_containers | sed -e "s/,/\n/g")?  do?    CIP=$(grep -iw "^ListenAddress" ${CONTAINER}/etc/ssh/sshd_config |sort -u |awk '{print $NF}')?    CPIP=$(curl -s --interface $CIP http://network-tools.com/ |grep 'name="host"'  |sed -e 's/.* value ="\([0-9,.]*\)".*$/\1/')?    echo "Container: $CONTAINER private IP: $CIP public IP: $CPIP"??    echo "Services running in $CONTAINER "?    CNSL=$(netstat -ntpl |grep -w "$CIP"  |grep -vw "$CIP:443" |awk '{printf("%s %s\n",$4,$NF)}' |sort -nk 1 |tr " /" ":")?    for CSERVICE in $CNSL?    do?      eval $(echo "SA=(${CSERVICE})" |tr ":" " ")?      SP=$(ps -eo pid,ppid,cmd |grep -v grep |grep -w "${SA[2]}" |awk '{printf("%s ", $1)}')?      SM=0?      for PID in $SP?      do?        SM=$(echo $SM $(awk '/Pss/ {print "+", $2}' /proc/$PID/smaps) | bc -l)?      done?      echo "${SA[0]}:${SA[1]} ${SA[3]}(${SA[2]}) - $(echo "scale=2; $SM / 1024" |bc -l) Mb  "?    done?    echo?  done?#netstat  -ntlpA inet |awk '{printf("%s %s\n",$4,$NF)}' |grep -vwE "0:111|0:46358|$IPADDR|Local name|only servers" |sort -nk 1 |tr " /" ":"?}??start_container_services ()?{ echo -n "  Starting container services ... "?  chroot $1 << EOF >/dev/null 2>&1?service container start?EOF?  echo done?}??stop_container_services ()?{ echo -n "  Stopping container services ... "?  chroot $1 << EOF >/dev/null 2>&1?service container stop?EOF?  echo done?}??umount_container ()?{ echo -n "  Unmounting container ... "?  STATUS=0?  ( cd $1?    SSTATUS=0?    for DIR in $UBINDS?    do?      if [ $(mount | grep -cw "${1}/$DIR") -ge 1 ] ?      then?        umount $DIR > /dev/null 2>&1 || ((SSTATUS++))?      fi?    done ?    [ $SSTATUS -ne 0 ] && exit 1 || exit 0?  ) || ((STATUS++)) ?  umount $1 > /dev/null 2>&1 || ((STATUS++))?  [ $STATUS -eq 0 ] && echo done || echo fail ?}??mount_container ()?{ echo -n "  Mounting container ... "?  STATUS=0?  mount $1 > /dev/null 2>&1 || ((STATUS++))?  ( cd $1?    SSTATUS=0?    for DIR in $MBINDS?    do?      if [ $(mount | grep -cw "${1}/$DIR") -eq 0 ]?      then?        [ -f $DIR -a ! -f /$DIR ] && touch /$DIR >/dev/null 2>&1?        mount -B /$DIR $DIR || ((SSTATUS++))?      fi?    done?    [ $SSTATUS -ne 0 ] && exit 1 || exit 0?  ) || ((STATUS++))?  [ $STATUS -eq 0 ] && echo done || echo fail ?}??do_stop ()?{ for CONTAINER in $(echo $* | tr "," " " | sed -e 's?/ ? ?g')?  do?    if list_mounted_containers | grep -qw $CONTAINER?    then?      echo "Stoppong $CONTAINER ... "?    else?      echo "$CONTAINER container is not running"?      continue?    fi?    stop_container_services $CONTAINER?    umount_container $CONTAINER?  done?}??do_start ()?{ for CONTAINER in $(echo $* | tr "," " " | sed -e 's?/ ? ?g')?  do?    if list_mounted_containers | grep -qw $CONTAINER?    then?      echo "$CONTAINER container already mounted"?      continue?    else?      echo "Starting $CONTAINER ... "?    fi?    mount_container $CONTAINER?    start_container_services $CONTAINER?  done?}??case $1 in ?  status) show_status ;;?  start) ?    if  [ "$2" != "" ]?    then?      shift ?      do_start $*?    else?      do_start $(list_defined_containers)?    fi?  ;;?  stop) ?    if  [ "$2" != "" ]?    then?      shift ?      do_stop $*?    else?      do_stop $(list_mounted_containers)?    fi?  ;;?  mount) mount_container $2 ;;?  umount) umount_container $2 ;;?  services) [ $# -ne 3 ] && usage?    case $2 in?      start) start_container_services $3 ;;?      stop) stop_container_services $3 ;;?      *)  usage ;;?    esac?  ;;?  version) echo "$NAME version: $VERSION" ; exit 0 ;;?  *) usage ;;?esac? /usr/local/bin/containers status
root      2118  2098  0 16:02 pts/0    00:00:00 /usr/local/bin/containers -c


Just a note onn how I strip my personal key and iv scrambling stuff from the version I use myself
diff -ubw functions.c  distributable/functions.c  > from_my_to_distributable.patch
make distributable creates the directory, copies the code  and patches functions.c
